README.md, before:

![BMW Lab NTUST Logo](https://github.com/bmw-ece-ntust/logo/raw/master/JPG/BMW_Lab-NTUST-Fullname.jpeg)


# BMW Lab Internship
- [BMW Lab Internship](#bmw-lab-internship)
  - [📞 1. CONTACT](#-1-contact)
    - [1.1 Supervisor](#11-supervisor)
    - [1.2 Points of Contact (PIC)](#12-points-of-contact-pic)
  - [🌟 **ABOUT THE INTERNSHIP**](#-about-the-internship)
  - [🎯 PURPOSE](#-purpose)
  - [📝 INTERNSHIP APPLICATION](#-internship-application)
  - [🏆 SUCCESS STORIES](#-success-stories)
    - [Admission and Scholarship, NTUST](#admission-and-scholarship-ntust)
    - [Selection Criteria:](#selection-criteria)
  - [Key Highlights](#key-highlights)
  - [TOPICS:](#topics)
    - [Lab topics](#lab-topics)
  - [The 3-Stages of Internship](#the-3-stages-of-internship)
    - [1. Probation](#1-probation)
      - [Steps to Follow:](#steps-to-follow)
    - [2. Internship](#2-internship)
      - [Initial Checklist:](#initial-checklist)
      - [⚠️ RULES:](#️-rules)
    - [3. End of Internship](#3-end-of-internship)
  - [🗓️ IMPORTANT SCHEDULE!](#️-important-schedule)


![TEEP2024](./pictures/TEEP%202024.jpeg)

## 📞 1. CONTACT
> [!NOTE]
> Click the link below to get their mail. And CC to the PIC as well.

### 1.1 Supervisor
- **Prof. Ray Guang Cheng**.
  - E-mail :crg@gapps.ntust.edu.tw
  - [Faculty Profile](https://www.et.ntust.edu.tw/et/faculty.php?user=crg&lang=en)
  - [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Lg3GlmYAAAAJ)

### 1.2 Points of Contact (PIC)
- Universitas Indonesia
  1. [Ian Joseph Chandra, S.T., M.Sc.](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-joseph-chandra) - d11202805@gapps.ntust.edu.tw
  2. Joshevan
- Institut Teknologi Bandung
  1. Wilfrid Azariah, S.T. - superwilfrid@gmail.com
- **Telkom University**
  1. Yosafat Marselino Agus, S.T. - ninoagus@protonmail.com

---
## 🌟 **ABOUT THE INTERNSHIP**
Welcome to the **Broadband Multimedia Wireless Laboratory (BMW Lab)** at NTUST!  
This internship offers hands-on experience for **self-disciplined students** passionate about technology and innovation.  

## 🎯 PURPOSE
> [!NOTE]
> We prioritize the students who are interested for having `Master's`/`Ph.D.` degree in BMW Lab - NTUST!

We are encouraging the talent students and partner professors among universities to initate and strenghen our collaboration through this internship program.
1. Sharpen the research direction of each interns for their final year;
2. Joint collaboration between Professors from NTUST & univerisity partners. The cooperation including:
   1. Joint publication for international journal (prioritized Q1 journal);
   2. Sharing research resources and knowledge between laboratories and university;
   3. Joint workshop for the upcoming opportunities;
3. Equip the interns with professional working ethics for their future graduate studies / industry carreer.

---
## 📝 INTERNSHIP APPLICATION
1. Go through the [**Topics**](#topics) and [**Golden Samples**](#Study-Note-Golden-Samples) sections for General information;
2. Fill the [**internship submission Form**](https://forms.gle/2GBf4AinKrHY4jyVA);
3. Send an email to Prof. Ray (crg@gapps.ntust.edu.tw) summarizing the following:
    - Your comments for the **KEY concepts** that you learned from the [**Golden Samples**](#Study-Note-Golden-Samples).
    - Your **LINE ID**.
    - Your **topic interest** & the **reason** why.
4. Follow the [**General Rules for Intern**](#️-rules) during the internship.


---
## 🏆 SUCCESS STORIES

- **Sep. 2023**: [Ian Joseph Chandra](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-joseph-chandra) received a scholarship for his PhD program at NTUST.  
- **Jan. 2023**: **Muhammad Luthfi** graduated with an `MS degree` from NTUST and now works at [Groundhog, Taiwan](https://www.ghtinc.com/tw/).  
- **Aug. 2022**: [Muhammad Fadli](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9FcyYgl-zsU) and [Achmad Kripton Nugraha](https://hackmd.io/OTRfVk21R5yCd74Ts_H7Tg) graduated with MS degrees from NTUST and secured jobs at [Groundhog, Taiwan](https://www.ghtinc.com/tw/).  
- **Dec. 2021**: [Wilfrid](https://hackmd.io/_SpJwkihTDCy4f3eAgVI0g) received a scholarship for NTUST's Spring 2022 Master’s Program.  
- **Jul. 2021**: [**Nadhif Muhammad Rekoputra**](https://hackmd.io/@nadhifmr/BkL2ZrCx7?type=view#) and  [**Derni Ageng**](https://hackmd.io/@Derni/Hkx72g8bQ?type=view) receive the MS degree from NTUST. Nadhif gets a job from [Accton](https://www.accton.com.tw/);  Derni gets a job from [Atayalan](https://www.atayalan.com/) Taiwan.

<details>
<summary>more stories...</summary>

- May. 2021: **[Akmal Narendra Sakti](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LWqLNWBNnWc795nioayIaeidv-AJnKk3/view)** (ITB, GPA 3.98/4, [CV](https://1drv.ms/b/s!Aht9OA4OGeodkz7QFy4-LHJpHf81?e=E6Fnva)) and **[Ferlinda Feliana](https://bit.ly/32iMChV)** (UI, GPA 3.75/4, [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1r2MP_dJnbR0yjfSiB--UxmBuf3FQ8dWU/view)) from [2020 Class (Remote)](#2020-Class) get the scholarship for the Fall 2021 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
- Dec. 2020: [**Muhammad Wito Malik**](https://hackmd.io/@witomalik/BkjFQoVHS) (UI) from [2019 Class](#2019-Class) and [**Nguyen Hoai Nam**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ao_cXjP8ftgHwE1t9DrXuteaTI7WEIsI/view) ([CV](https://hackmd.io/hY1N_pynRryGYUPMRq7pZA)), from [2020 Class (Remote)](#2020-Class) get the scholarship for the Spring 2021 Class of Master Program at NTUST. 
- May. 2020: [**Muhammad Fadli**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9FcyYgl-zsU&ab_channel=MuhammadFadli) (UI, GPA 3.86/4.00, [CV](https://hackmd.io/oiyaEZBDQd6KFPmRgz4qnw?view)), [**Ian Joseph Chandra**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iaybjHkuAUaVPBe8xIcw6sZxd3INTcoP/view) (UI, GPA: 3.73/4.00, [CV](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-joseph-chandra/)), [**Achmad Kripton Nugraha**](https://hackmd.io/OTRfVk21R5yCd74Ts_H7Tg) (UI, GPA: 3.86/4.00, [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12sRm1nTwU23I2lBkw69K3XVqKQbMaCOU/view?usp=sharing)), [**Luthfi Mufadel**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1I6ujc4WUGHe7RgDqEXgv-l-c-kmwIt-K/view) (UI, GPA 3.76/4.00, [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YrKO_avX84GsiW3w3VPmez3fPSkKki1r/view?usp=sharing), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luthfimufadel/))from [2019 Class](#2019-Class) get the scholarship for the Fall 2020 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
- Dec. 2019: [**Jonathan**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LvSiZrWK3lsqH0Xp9jLF6TB0FolGXAq4/view) (UI, GPA 3.75/4.00, [CV](https://hackmd.io/@Jon97/BJh2xal4Y)) from [2019 Class](#2019-Class) gets the scholarship for the Spring 2020 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
- May. 2019: [**Nadhif Muhammad Rekoputra**](https://hackmd.io/@nadhifmr/BkL2ZrCx7?type=view#) (UI), [**Derni Ageng**](https://hackmd.io/@Derni/Hkx72g8bQ?type=view) (UI), and **Aria** (UI) from [2018 Class](#2018-Class) get the scholarship for the Fall 2019 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
</details>

### Admission and Scholarship, NTUST

- [Admission of International Students @ NTUST](https://admissions.ntust.edu.tw/)
- Financial support:
    - [NTUST Scholarship](https://www.oia.ntust.edu.tw/p/412-1060-8929.php?Lang=en)
    - [ASUS Scholarship](https://www.oia.ntust.edu.tw/p/404-1060-104226.php?Lang=en)
    - [AAEON Scholarship](https://ece.ntust.edu.tw/p/406-1017-83234,r2.php?Lang=en)

### Selection Criteria:
1. Min. passed the 5th semester of Undergraduate (Bachelor's) studies;
2. Good at programming C, C++, and Python;
3. Passionate in writing research paper journal;
4. Intend to take [Master's/Ph.D.](#admission-and-scholarship-ntust) in NTUST;
---
## Key Highlights  
- Collaborate with international students and industry experts.  
- Opportunity to transition into MS or PhD programs at NTUST.  

<!-- ## Skills You Will Learn  
1. **Teamwork**  
2. **Self-learning**  
3. **Decision-making**  
4. **Adaptability**  
5. [**Time-management**](https://youtu.be/oTugjssqOT0)   -->

## TOPICS:
### Lab topics
-  Beyond 5G/6G:
   1. O-RAN Software Community (OSC) open source
   2. OpenAirInterface (OAI) open-source
   3. Digital Twin (open-souce + commercial)

- AI/ML
  1. Energy Saving
  2. Auto-configuration

- Security
  1. C/U/S-plane attacker

- Internet of Things:
  1. WiFi
  2. Indoor Positioning (WiFi + BLE)

## The 3-Stages of Internship
Here you will find our guideline to prepare your internship in Taiwan. We have several stages to be done during the process:
1. [**Probation**](#3-probation): A simulation stage for the working style in BMW Lab or our partner companies.
2. [**Internship**](#4-internship): Rules to be followed after you passed the `probation stage`.
3. [**End of Internship**](#5-end-of-internship): Output delivarance (documentation, slides, demo, paper draft, etc.) to BMW Lab or our partner companies.

> [!WARNING]
> “Without a doubt, you will face many challenges during the internship. But with perseverance, you can achieve great things!” – Prof. Ray  

---

### 1. Probation

The probation period begins **the moment you're accepted** into the internship program and lasts for **3-4 months** (negotiable). Your performance during probation will **determine whether you’re accepted or rejected** for the onsite internship in our lab.

#### Steps to Follow:

1. Create your personal Trello card - [template](https://trello.com/c/u9sGqbL3 "Trello Template").
2. Finish the **1st Checklist** within **1 week***.
3. **Find a mentor** to discuss your milestones and topic.
4. Write your **Milestones** (monthly targets) in the **Checklist Section**, following the provided template.
5. Write your daily updates for the intern project and class/coursework in the **Activity Section**, following the [template](https://trello.com/c/u9sGqbL3#comment-659d890649307cc45b86ce29 "Trello Activity Template").
6. Input your work in Trello using hyperlinks: [Example Document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OaBAXgMUCvCUQz4GsodeCcIdW4o-_wWb/view?usp=sharing "SmartCard Inline").

**Note**:  
\* Deadlines can be negotiated if you're in exam week (discuss with your mentor).

---

### 2. Internship
#### Initial Checklist:
To facilitate organization and collaboration among interns at BMW Lab, please follow these steps:

1. Wear BMW Lab name tag ID during working hour.
2. **Create a branch** using the template `[year]-[Program Name]-[Intern ID]-[Name]`.  
   Example: `2019-TEEP-22-Ian`.
3. **Edit the README.md** on your branch with the profile information you provided in your Trello card.
4. **Organize your study notes** by creating folders for different topics or projects.
5. **Create `.md` files** for your study notes, ensuring proper structure and clarity.

This applies to **remote probation**, **remote internship**, and **onsite internship**. Any violation will result in **immediate disqualification**.

#### ⚠️ RULES:
1. ⚠️ **DO NOT** take any other internship **without permission** during the **probation to the end of your internship** duration.
2. 🗓️ Work from **Monday to Friday, 🕰️ `09:00 - 17:00`**.
3. 🗳️ **Check-in** on your Trello card Activity 🕰️ **before `09:00`**, and write your `daily plan` or `Backlog`.
4. 🗳️ **Check-out** on your Trello card Activity 🕰️ **after `17:00`**, attaching a 🔗 **`hyperlink result`** as evidence of your work.
5. 📝 Document your project work on the [BMW Internship GitHub](https://github.com/bmw-ece-ntust/internship "BMW Internship GitHub") - follow the [Instructions](https://github.com/bmw-ece-ntust/internship?tab=readme-ov-file#1-introduction "BMW GitHub Instructions").
6. **Weekly meetings** with your mentor:
   - 📝 Write the meeting minutes, including **action items** for the next week, on your Trello card activity.
   - **Optional**: Daily stand-ups are allowed if agreed upon with your mentor. Weekly meetings are **highly recommended**.

**Tip**: Create a separate Trello card to track weekly meetings if necessary.

---
### 3. End of Internship

1. Verify the **deliverables** in your Trello card with your mentor.
2. Finish all tasks on your Trello card checklists.
3. Share your **internship experience** in two formats:
   - **Text**: Write it in Google Docs and share the link in your Trello card Activity section.
   - **Video**: Record a testimony and upload it to [YouTube](http://youtube.com "YouTube").
4. Complete the [TEEP Survey Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdWLiwlq39icJ-ulSeVIIHkzcu01MwK-xSO_9tMzItofZt0hQ/viewform "TEEP Survey Form").
5. Complete the [Mentors Assessment Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeJ5ZNKkrz27HFsO2ZFiU-mB2DwD8yFyf45zqdxJqjnnyWVLA/viewform "Mentor Assessment Form").
6. Obtain a certificate for your internship (**provide a template if required**).

Prepare the following for your final presentation:

- Slides
- [IEEE Template](https://www.overleaf.com/gallery/tagged/ieee-official "IEEE Template")
- [Typical Research Thesis Structure](https://hackmd.io/LKNRZXIaRnqh36M5Ly6FXQ#Typical-Research-Thesis-Structure "Research Thesis Structure")
- [Research Abstract](https://hackmd.io/LKNRZXIaRnqh36M5Ly6FXQ#Research-Abstract "Research Abstract")

---

**Note**: Ensure adherence to all the above guidelines for a successful internship journey. **Good luck**! ⭐️

## 🗓️ IMPORTANT SCHEDULE!

Commit message:

Update the WIFi Digital Twin Topic
1. Create a new page for WiFi Digital Twin
2. Add references for the WiFi Digital Twin

README.md, after:

![BMW Lab NTUST Logo](https://github.com/bmw-ece-ntust/logo/raw/master/JPG/BMW_Lab-NTUST-Fullname.jpeg)


# BMW Lab Internship
- [BMW Lab Internship](#bmw-lab-internship)
  - [📞 1. CONTACT](#-1-contact)
    - [1.1 Supervisor](#11-supervisor)
    - [1.2 Points of Contact (PIC)](#12-points-of-contact-pic)
  - [🌟 **ABOUT THE INTERNSHIP**](#-about-the-internship)
  - [🎯 PURPOSE](#-purpose)
  - [📝 INTERNSHIP APPLICATION](#-internship-application)
  - [🏆 SUCCESS STORIES](#-success-stories)
    - [Admission and Scholarship, NTUST](#admission-and-scholarship-ntust)
    - [Selection Criteria:](#selection-criteria)
  - [Key Highlights](#key-highlights)
  - [TOPICS:](#topics)
    - [Lab topics](#lab-topics)
  - [The 3-Stages of Internship](#the-3-stages-of-internship)
    - [1. Probation](#1-probation)
      - [Steps to Follow:](#steps-to-follow)
    - [2. Internship](#2-internship)
      - [Initial Checklist:](#initial-checklist)
      - [⚠️ RULES:](#️-rules)
    - [3. End of Internship](#3-end-of-internship)
  - [🗓️ IMPORTANT SCHEDULE!](#️-important-schedule)


![TEEP2024](./pictures/TEEP%202024.jpeg)

## 📞 1. CONTACT
> [!NOTE]
> Click the link below to get their mail. And CC to the PIC as well.

### 1.1 Supervisor
- **Prof. Ray Guang Cheng**.
  - E-mail :crg@gapps.ntust.edu.tw
  - [Faculty Profile](https://www.et.ntust.edu.tw/et/faculty.php?user=crg&lang=en)
  - [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Lg3GlmYAAAAJ)

### 1.2 Points of Contact (PIC)
- Universitas Indonesia
  1. [Ian Joseph Chandra, S.T., M.Sc.](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-joseph-chandra) - d11202805@gapps.ntust.edu.tw
  2. Joshevan
- Institut Teknologi Bandung
  1. Wilfrid Azariah, S.T. - superwilfrid@gmail.com
- **Telkom University**
  1. Yosafat Marselino Agus, S.T. - ninoagus@protonmail.com

---
## 🌟 **ABOUT THE INTERNSHIP**
Welcome to the **Broadband Multimedia Wireless Laboratory (BMW Lab)** at NTUST!  
This internship offers hands-on experience for **self-disciplined students** passionate about technology and innovation.  

## 🎯 PURPOSE
> [!NOTE]
> We prioritize the students who are interested for having `Master's`/`Ph.D.` degree in BMW Lab - NTUST!

We are encouraging the talent students and partner professors among universities to initate and strenghen our collaboration through this internship program.
1. Sharpen the research direction of each interns for their final year;
2. Joint collaboration between Professors from NTUST & univerisity partners. The cooperation including:
   1. Joint publication for international journal (prioritized Q1 journal);
   2. Sharing research resources and knowledge between laboratories and university;
   3. Joint workshop for the upcoming opportunities;
3. Equip the interns with professional working ethics for their future graduate studies / industry carreer.

---
## 📝 INTERNSHIP APPLICATION
1. Go through the [**Topics**](#topics) and [**Golden Samples**](#Study-Note-Golden-Samples) sections for General information;
2. Fill the [**internship submission Form**](https://forms.gle/2GBf4AinKrHY4jyVA);
3. Send an email to Prof. Ray (crg@gapps.ntust.edu.tw) summarizing the following:
    - Your comments for the **KEY concepts** that you learned from the [**Golden Samples**](#Study-Note-Golden-Samples).
    - Your **LINE ID**.
    - Your **topic interest** & the **reason** why.
4. Follow the [**General Rules for Intern**](#️-rules) during the internship.


---
## 🏆 SUCCESS STORIES

- **Sep. 2023**: [Ian Joseph Chandra](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-joseph-chandra) received a scholarship for his PhD program at NTUST.  
- **Jan. 2023**: **Muhammad Luthfi** graduated with an `MS degree` from NTUST and now works at [Groundhog, Taiwan](https://www.ghtinc.com/tw/).  
- **Aug. 2022**: [Muhammad Fadli](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9FcyYgl-zsU) and [Achmad Kripton Nugraha](https://hackmd.io/OTRfVk21R5yCd74Ts_H7Tg) graduated with MS degrees from NTUST and secured jobs at [Groundhog, Taiwan](https://www.ghtinc.com/tw/).  
- **Dec. 2021**: [Wilfrid](https://hackmd.io/_SpJwkihTDCy4f3eAgVI0g) received a scholarship for NTUST's Spring 2022 Master’s Program.  
- **Jul. 2021**: [**Nadhif Muhammad Rekoputra**](https://hackmd.io/@nadhifmr/BkL2ZrCx7?type=view#) and  [**Derni Ageng**](https://hackmd.io/@Derni/Hkx72g8bQ?type=view) receive the MS degree from NTUST. Nadhif gets a job from [Accton](https://www.accton.com.tw/);  Derni gets a job from [Atayalan](https://www.atayalan.com/) Taiwan.

<details>
<summary>more stories...</summary>

- May. 2021: **[Akmal Narendra Sakti](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LWqLNWBNnWc795nioayIaeidv-AJnKk3/view)** (ITB, GPA 3.98/4, [CV](https://1drv.ms/b/s!Aht9OA4OGeodkz7QFy4-LHJpHf81?e=E6Fnva)) and **[Ferlinda Feliana](https://bit.ly/32iMChV)** (UI, GPA 3.75/4, [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1r2MP_dJnbR0yjfSiB--UxmBuf3FQ8dWU/view)) from [2020 Class (Remote)](#2020-Class) get the scholarship for the Fall 2021 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
- Dec. 2020: [**Muhammad Wito Malik**](https://hackmd.io/@witomalik/BkjFQoVHS) (UI) from [2019 Class](#2019-Class) and [**Nguyen Hoai Nam**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ao_cXjP8ftgHwE1t9DrXuteaTI7WEIsI/view) ([CV](https://hackmd.io/hY1N_pynRryGYUPMRq7pZA)), from [2020 Class (Remote)](#2020-Class) get the scholarship for the Spring 2021 Class of Master Program at NTUST. 
- May. 2020: [**Muhammad Fadli**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9FcyYgl-zsU&ab_channel=MuhammadFadli) (UI, GPA 3.86/4.00, [CV](https://hackmd.io/oiyaEZBDQd6KFPmRgz4qnw?view)), [**Ian Joseph Chandra**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iaybjHkuAUaVPBe8xIcw6sZxd3INTcoP/view) (UI, GPA: 3.73/4.00, [CV](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ian-joseph-chandra/)), [**Achmad Kripton Nugraha**](https://hackmd.io/OTRfVk21R5yCd74Ts_H7Tg) (UI, GPA: 3.86/4.00, [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12sRm1nTwU23I2lBkw69K3XVqKQbMaCOU/view?usp=sharing)), [**Luthfi Mufadel**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1I6ujc4WUGHe7RgDqEXgv-l-c-kmwIt-K/view) (UI, GPA 3.76/4.00, [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YrKO_avX84GsiW3w3VPmez3fPSkKki1r/view?usp=sharing), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luthfimufadel/))from [2019 Class](#2019-Class) get the scholarship for the Fall 2020 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
- Dec. 2019: [**Jonathan**](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LvSiZrWK3lsqH0Xp9jLF6TB0FolGXAq4/view) (UI, GPA 3.75/4.00, [CV](https://hackmd.io/@Jon97/BJh2xal4Y)) from [2019 Class](#2019-Class) gets the scholarship for the Spring 2020 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
- May. 2019: [**Nadhif Muhammad Rekoputra**](https://hackmd.io/@nadhifmr/BkL2ZrCx7?type=view#) (UI), [**Derni Ageng**](https://hackmd.io/@Derni/Hkx72g8bQ?type=view) (UI), and **Aria** (UI) from [2018 Class](#2018-Class) get the scholarship for the Fall 2019 Class of Master Program at NTUST.
</details>

### Admission and Scholarship, NTUST

- [Admission of International Students @ NTUST](https://admissions.ntust.edu.tw/)
- Financial support:
    - [NTUST Scholarship](https://www.oia.ntust.edu.tw/p/412-1060-8929.php?Lang=en)
    - [ASUS Scholarship](https://www.oia.ntust.edu.tw/p/404-1060-104226.php?Lang=en)
    - [AAEON Scholarship](https://ece.ntust.edu.tw/p/406-1017-83234,r2.php?Lang=en)

### Selection Criteria:
1. Min. passed the 5th semester of Undergraduate (Bachelor's) studies;
2. Good at programming C, C++, and Python;
3. Passionate in writing research paper journal;
4. Intend to take [Master's/Ph.D.](#admission-and-scholarship-ntust) in NTUST;
---
## Key Highlights  
- Collaborate with international students and industry experts.  
- Opportunity to transition into MS or PhD programs at NTUST.  

<!-- ## Skills You Will Learn  
1. **Teamwork**  
2. **Self-learning**  
3. **Decision-making**  
4. **Adaptability**  
5. [**Time-management**](https://youtu.be/oTugjssqOT0)   -->

## TOPICS:
### Lab topics
Our main topic in this year is about Network Digital Twin in Cellular and WiFi.

-  Beyond 5G/6G:
   1. O-RAN Software Community (OSC) open source
   2. OpenAirInterface (OAI) open-source
   3. Digital Twin (open-souce + commercial)

- AI/ML:
  1. Energy Saving
  2. Auto-configuration
<!-- 
- Security
  1. C/U/S-plane attacker -->

- [Internet of Things](./topics/wifi-digital-twin):
  1. WiFi Optimization
  2. Rogue AP Localization (Positioning)


## The 3-Stages of Internship
Here you will find our guideline to prepare your internship in Taiwan. We have several stages to be done during the process:
1. [**Probation**](#3-probation): A simulation stage for the working style in BMW Lab or our partner companies.
2. [**Internship**](#4-internship): Rules to be followed after you passed the `probation stage`.
3. [**End of Internship**](#5-end-of-internship): Output delivarance (documentation, slides, demo, paper draft, etc.) to BMW Lab or our partner companies.

> [!WARNING]
> “Without a doubt, you will face many challenges during the internship. But with perseverance, you can achieve great things!” – Prof. Ray  

---

### 1. Probation

The probation period begins **the moment you're accepted** into the internship program and lasts for **3-4 months** (negotiable). Your performance during probation will **determine whether you’re accepted or rejected** for the onsite internship in our lab.

#### Steps to Follow:

1. Create your personal Trello card - [template](https://trello.com/c/u9sGqbL3 "Trello Template").
2. Finish the **1st Checklist** within **1 week***.
3. **Find a mentor** to discuss your milestones and topic.
4. Write your **Milestones** (monthly targets) in the **Checklist Section**, following the provided template.
5. Write your daily updates for the intern project and class/coursework in the **Activity Section**, following the [template](https://trello.com/c/u9sGqbL3#comment-659d890649307cc45b86ce29 "Trello Activity Template").
6. Input your work in Trello using hyperlinks: [Example Document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OaBAXgMUCvCUQz4GsodeCcIdW4o-_wWb/view?usp=sharing "SmartCard Inline").

**Note**:  
\* Deadlines can be negotiated if you're in exam week (discuss with your mentor).

---

### 2. Internship
#### Initial Checklist:
To facilitate organization and collaboration among interns at BMW Lab, please follow these steps:

1. Wear BMW Lab name tag ID during working hour.
2. **Create a branch** using the template `[year]-[Program Name]-[Intern ID]-[Name]`.  
   Example: `2019-TEEP-22-Ian`.
3. **Edit the README.md** on your branch with the profile information you provided in your Trello card.
4. **Organize your study notes** by creating folders for different topics or projects.
5. **Create `.md` files** for your study notes, ensuring proper structure and clarity.

This applies to **remote probation**, **remote internship**, and **onsite internship**. Any violation will result in **immediate disqualification**.

#### ⚠️ RULES:
1. ⚠️ **DO NOT** take any other internship **without permission** during the **probation to the end of your internship** duration.
2. 🗓️ Work from **Monday to Friday, 🕰️ `09:00 - 17:00`**.
3. 🗳️ **Check-in** on your Trello card Activity 🕰️ **before `09:00`**, and write your `daily plan` or `Backlog`.
4. 🗳️ **Check-out** on your Trello card Activity 🕰️ **after `17:00`**, attaching a 🔗 **`hyperlink result`** as evidence of your work.
5. 📝 Document your project work on the [BMW Internship GitHub](https://github.com/bmw-ece-ntust/internship "BMW Internship GitHub") - follow the [Instructions](https://github.com/bmw-ece-ntust/internship?tab=readme-ov-file#1-introduction "BMW GitHub Instructions").
6. **Weekly meetings** with your mentor:
   - 📝 Write the meeting minutes, including **action items** for the next week, on your Trello card activity.
   - **Optional**: Daily stand-ups are allowed if agreed upon with your mentor. Weekly meetings are **highly recommended**.

**Tip**: Create a separate Trello card to track weekly meetings if necessary.

---
### 3. End of Internship

1. Verify the **deliverables** in your Trello card with your mentor.
2. Finish all tasks on your Trello card checklists.
3. Share your **internship experience** in two formats:
   - **Text**: Write it in Google Docs and share the link in your Trello card Activity section.
   - **Video**: Record a testimony and upload it to [YouTube](http://youtube.com "YouTube").
4. Complete the [TEEP Survey Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdWLiwlq39icJ-ulSeVIIHkzcu01MwK-xSO_9tMzItofZt0hQ/viewform "TEEP Survey Form").
5. Complete the [Mentors Assessment Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeJ5ZNKkrz27HFsO2ZFiU-mB2DwD8yFyf45zqdxJqjnnyWVLA/viewform "Mentor Assessment Form").
6. Obtain a certificate for your internship (**provide a template if required**).

Prepare the following for your final presentation:

- Slides
- [IEEE Template](https://www.overleaf.com/gallery/tagged/ieee-official "IEEE Template")
- [Typical Research Thesis Structure](https://hackmd.io/LKNRZXIaRnqh36M5Ly6FXQ#Typical-Research-Thesis-Structure "Research Thesis Structure")
- [Research Abstract](https://hackmd.io/LKNRZXIaRnqh36M5Ly6FXQ#Research-Abstract "Research Abstract")

---

**Note**: Ensure adherence to all the above guidelines for a successful internship journey. **Good luck**! ⭐️

## 🗓️ IMPORTANT SCHEDULE!
